There was once a little boy called Willie. I never knew his other name,
and as he lived far off behind the mountain, we cannot go to inquire.
He had fair hair and blue eyes, and there was something in his face
that, when you had looked at him, made you feel quite happy and rested,
and think of all the things you meant to do by-and-by when you were
wiser and stronger. He lived all alone with the tall aunt, who was very
rich, in the big house at the end of the village. Every morning he went
down the street with his little goat under his arm, and the village
folk looked after him and said, "There goes Master Willie."

The tall aunt had a very long neck; on the top of it was her head, on
the top of her head she wore a white cap. Willie used often to look up
at her and think that the cap was like snow upon the mountain. She was
very fond of Willie, but she had lived a great many years and was
always sitting still to think them over, and she had forgotten all the
games she used to know, all the stories she had read when she was
little, and when Willie asked her about them, would say, "No, dear, no,
I can't remember; go to the woods and play." Sometimes she would take
his face between her two hands and look at him well while Willie felt
quite sure that she was not thinking of him, but of someone else he did
not know, and then she would kiss him, and turn away quickly, saying,
"Go to the woods, dear; it is no good staying with an old woman." Then
he, knowing that she wanted to be alone, would pick up his goat and
hurry away.

He had had a dear little sister, called Apple-blossom, but a strange
thing had happened to her. One day she over-wound her very big doll
that talked and walked, and the consequence was quite terrible. No
sooner was the winding-up key out of the doll's side than it blinked
its eyes, talked very fast, made faces, took Apple-blossom by the hand,
saying, "I am not your doll any longer, but you are my little girl,"
and led her right away no one could tell whither, and no one was able
to follow. The tall aunt and Willie only knew that she had gone to be
the doll's little girl in some strange place, where dolls were stronger
and more important than human beings.

After Apple-blossom left him, Willie had only his goat to play with; it
was a poor little thing with no horns, no tail and hardly any hair, but
still he loved it dearly, and put it under his arm every morning while
he went along the street.

"It is only made of painted wood and a little hair, Master Willie,"
said the blacksmith's wife one day. "Why should you care for it; it is
not even alive."

"But if it were alive, anyone could love it."

"And living hands made it," the miller's wife said. "I wonder what
strange hands they were;--take care of it for the sake of them, little
master."

"Yes, dame, I will," he answered gratefully, and he went on his way
thinking of the hands, wondering what tasks had been set them to do
since they fashioned the little goat. He stayed all day in the woods
helping the children to gather nuts and blackberries. In the afternoon
he watched them go home with their aprons full; he looked after them
longingly as they went on their way singing. If he had had a father and
mother, or brothers and sisters, to whom he could have carried home
nuts and blackberries, how merry he would have been. Sometimes he told
the children how happy they were to live in a cottage with the door
open all day, and the sweet breeze blowing in, and the cocks and hens
strutting about outside, and the pigs grunting in the styes at the end
of the garden; to see the mother scrubbing and washing, to know that
the father was working in the fields, and to run about and help and
play, and be cuffed and kissed, just as it happened. Then they would
answer, "But you have the tall lady for your aunt, and the big house to
live in, and the grand carriage to drive in, while we are poor, and
sometimes have little to eat and drink; mother often tells us how fine
it must be to be you."

"But the food that you eat is sweet because you are very hungry," he
answered them, "and no one sorrows in your house. As for the grand
carriage, it is better to have a carriage if your heart is heavy, but
when it is light, then you can run swiftly on your own two legs." Ah,
poor Willie, how lonely he was, and yet the tall aunt loved him dearly.
On hot drowsy days he had many a good sleep with his head resting
against her high thin shoulders, and her arms about him.

One afternoon, clasping his goat as usual, he sat down by the pond. All
the children had gone home, so he was quite alone, but he was glad to
look at the pond and think. There were so many strange things in the
world, it seemed as if he would never have done thinking about them,
not if he lived to be a hundred.